---
Title: Activiti 7 and ADF
Level: Intermediate
---

# Building an ADF application on top of Activiti Cloud 7.0.0 GA Community Edition

This tutorial shows how to configure an ADF app to connect to Activiti Cloud 7.

[Activiti Cloud 7](https://www.activiti.org/) is the new generation cloud-native implementation
of Activiti BPM Engine. Starting with the
[ADF 3 major release](../release-notes/relnote300.md#activiti-7-support-experimental),
Alfresco began to support the Activiti 7 Engine within the ADF framework. We have nearly
finished implementing all the required features, and so in this tutorial we will explain how
to build an ADF application on top of Activiti Cloud 7.0.0 GA Community Edition.

## Preparing Activiti 7 services

As you can imagine, a prerequisite to create an ADF app like this is to have an instance of
Activiti 7 up and running. To learn how to install and setup your own
Activiti 7 instance, please follow the
[official documentation]([https://activiti.gitbook.io/activiti-7-developers-guide).

Assuming that you already have your own instance of Activiti 7 up and running, a small tweak is required to make it work correctly with an ADF application. This is mainly a matter of how
the application is named, as described in detail below.

### What ADF requires from Activiti 7 backend services

By default, Activiti 7 starts a known list of services
(which are Kubernetes [pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod/))
for each application. Specifically, these include the runtime bundle, connectors, audit, and
query among others. Our interest here is the runtime bundle service, which is directly used
by all ADF applications.

The runtime bundle service pod (generated by the default installation) has the name
`rb-[appName]` (usually `rb-my-app`) to begin with. An ADF application requires the runtime
bundle service to be available with the name `[appName]/rb` (usually `my-app/rb`).

### How to change the name of the runtime bundle service

You can change the default name of the runtime bundle easily using the
[helm charts](https://github.com/Activiti/activiti-cloud-charts).  If you used the
[quick-start guide](https://activiti.gitbook.io/activiti-7-developers-guide/getting-started/getting-started-activiti-cloud) (deploying the "Activiti Cloud Full Example") you can change the
[values.yaml](https://github.com/Activiti/activiti-cloud-charts/blob/master/activiti-cloud-full-example/values.yaml)
file as shown below:

```yaml
    application:
      runtime-bundle:
        enabled: true
        service:
          name: rb \\ <-- change it here!
    ...
```

When this is done, clean up your deployment environment (delete the pods and everything needed
to create a fresh environment, ready to be deployed again) and deploy Activiti 7 again, using
the modified helm chart.

When Activiti 7 is up and running again, you will be then ready to build your own Alfresco ADF application on top of it.

## Building the ADF application

You can create an ADF application easily using the [Yeoman generator](https://yeoman.io/).
See our [tutorial](creating-your-first-adf-application.md) for a full description of
how to do this. Make sure you select "Process Services with Activiti" as the type of project
to create.

Once this is created, do not change the `proxy.conf.json` file, but continue with the configuration as described in the following paragraph. You are now very close to the goal of having your own ADF
application working against Activiti 7 Community Edition backend services.

## Configuring the ADF application

To configure your existing ADF application, you just need to edit the `app.config.json` file.

First of all, be sure you set up the `bpmHost`, `identityHost` and `host` properties with the
correct URL of the Activiti 7 deployment. Then check (and probably change) the URI of `identityHost` and `host` to be `/auth/realms/activiti`.

After your changes, the `app.config.json` file should look like the example below:

```json
    ...
    "bpmHost": "<Activiti7BaseUrl>",
    "identityHost": "<Activiti7BaseUrl>/auth/realms/activiti",
    "providers": "BPM",
    "application": {
        "name": "Alfresco ADF Application"
    },
    "authType": "OAUTH",
    "oauth2": {
        "host": "<Activiti7BaseUrl>/auth/realms/activiti",
    ...
```

Then, set the `alfresco-deployed-apps` property as shown below.

    "alfresco-deployed-apps": [{"name":""}]

When you are done, save the `app.config.json` file and launch the application by executing
the `npm start` command. You should now be able to use your own ADF application
on top of Activiti 7 Community Edition backend services.
